# September 11, 2020

## Single Instruction ISA - II
OISC -> One Instruction Set Architecture

- So we mentioned sbn: subtract, and branch if negative
- sbn, temp, b, 2 means: temp = temp - b, then go to instruction 2 if temp<0 else continue to the next instruction
- We can write any program with sbn
- The main problem is that in order to design a single if statement will take a bunch of instructions
- If we don't have if condition directly, we might need more number of instructions. 
- If we use sbn as a single instruction, program will get frustrated.

```
Program to get sum of numbers from 1 to n:
// Initialization:
	one = 1
	index = n
	sum = 0
	
// Computation

	1: sbn, temp, temp, 2
	2: sbn, temp, index, 3
	3: sbn, sum , temp, 4
	4: index, one, 



```

## Multiple Instruction ISA

- Arithmetic Instructions
- Logical Instructions
- Move Instructions
- Branch Instructions

# VN Architecture
Recollect that VN Arch consists of CU and ALU (CPU), Memory, and I/O Devices.

So uh, the the point I'm trying to highlight here is that the CPU takes the program maybe from memory

## Uses of Registers
IR, PC, every register is having some sort of name - and function.

They are named storage locations, and by calling their name we can get their values.

Try to learn how the different architectures design these registers. THe more number of registers you pack in a CPU, the faster the processing speed. However, it requires more space for the CPU design. It also becomes ore complex and expensive.

COST vs PERFORMANCE vs SPACE is always a challenge in design of architecture

It's not about buts, but number of registers and it typically varies from 16-64.

## Example of a Program in Machine Language with Registers:

1: r1 = mem[b] 	// load b (FETCH 1)
2: r2 = mem[c] 	// load c (FETCH 2)
3: r3 = r1 + r2 	// add b and c (TRANSFER OF DATA)
4: mem[a] = r3 	// save the result

- r1, r2, and r3 are registers
- mem -> array of bytes representing memory

We represent the operations in ISA format like above

What is exactly happening?
We have a CPU which has registers r1, r2, and r3. It has CU, ALU, etc, and it also has a memory unit which has one location for a, b, and c each. 

From memory, we get the value in memory space of b and c, and are stored in r1 and r2 respectively. The ALU takes the values form r1 and r2 and stores it in r3. 

 
Fetch 
Decode
Execute
Write

In above sequence
1 -> Fetch
2 -> Fetch
3 -> First instruction is decoded to specify that it is an add instruction. And then the instruction is executed.
4 -> Write-back step (storing value of a in memory)

Each step has it's own Instruction Cycle but not every step of the instruction cycle is executed

## ISA
- If the ISA changes, the compiler also changes.
- We will discuss assembly progarmming in next class
- Then look at implementing a particular ISA by designing the processor
- There could be multiple processors in the same system. They are typically homogeneous (meaning?) but they could also be heterogeneous.4

## Turing Machine - Alan Turing
The Turing machine is a theoretical computer

Alan Turing - Father of CS
Turing machine is the most powerful computing device.
Theory of Computation is course is completely based on the turing machine. It is a backbone for the realtime computation system.

*Refer to turing machine diagram while reading this*

Turing suggested a machine which is expected to have an infinitely long tape, on which you can store information

On both sides there are open ends and you can keep on writing data on the tape. This tape has a tape head which would move to the left or  right based on his instruction. 

You can give instructions that, if the current value is 0, move left, otherwise write 0 in it and move left.

In the process, we need to remember a state. Like, is it going from left to right, or 0 to 1, etc. Note down every detail. Those details are stored in an action table.

### Action Table


(old state, old symbol) -> (new state, new symbol, left/right)

One action after another is brought into the state register

EXAMPLE FOR CLARIFICATION:

Design a turing machine to increment a number by one.

- Store terminator symbols on the tape so the tape head doesn't cross those, and store data values between them.
- Start from one of the terminal symbols, in this case we start from the right most position\
- if state = 1, replace the number x by x+1 mod 10.
- The new state is equal to the value of the carry
- Keep going left till the '$' sign.

This machine can be used to solve almost any problem.

If you have some program P, then the program takes some input, processes it, and gives output. This execution happens inside a computer. The turing machine is a theoretical computer. You have to decide the actions of the program to solve your problems.

Suppose there is a multiplication operation. You use another computer that performs addition and run it multiple times. This is not a very feasible idea because it is not efficient to device a turing machine for every operation.

## Universal Turing Machine
The universal turing machine (P*) (* for universal).
- A UTM needs to have a common action table, state register, and tape that can simulate any arbitrary Turing Machine.
- This is different from a simple Turing machine which takes inputs and is only capable of performing a specific operation on it.

One way to design a machine with multiple applications is to connect multiple turing machines together that 

But to build a single machine with multiple capabilities:
In this case, the turing machine is slightly modified which would again include the action table, state register and tape.

The tape is used to store both instructions and data (tape is divided into two parts)
