# September 21, 2020

We have been discussing on modifiers and every instruction (maybe not every instruction, but some of  the instructions) have modifiers. Wtf happened in modifiers. Ohhhh see more about modifiers slide from last class (in notes).


## Implementing Functions
Functions are blocks of assembly instructions that can be repeatedly invoked to perform a certain action.

Every function has a starting address in memory (e.g. foo has a starting address A)

How to start discussing a program?
Every high level language supports functions. Aaaannddd, a what is a function? 

So the fundamental requirement is that when you are executing a function, you need to call it.

when the program counter reaches the function, the instructions from the function are loaded into the program counter. After completing all the instructions from the function, the return address sets the next instruction from the original sequence in the program counter

i -> A -> A+1 -> ... -> i+1

The return address (i+1) has to be stored 

## Notion of the return address
**SS HERE**

### How do we pass arguments / return values?
With registers
** SS HERE ** (bluee arrows)

This is your function foo and you're calling the function here, (at call .foo)

Whenever there is a function call in the execution of main program, at this point, it stores the return address, executed the instructions of the function, and continues with the main program.

## Problems with this mechanism

We are having limited number of registers. So sometimes we will have data elements / arguments which are more than 16 (need not be 16, just taken as an example). Then how do we pass more than 16 arguments?

So, one of the fixes can be to use the memory instead of just the registers. You may be calling the function several times and in the process of repetition of the code. So first problem is the space problem

The second problem is the recursive calls problem

SUppose you called a function and that problem let's say it uses all 16 registers. So if it calls itself again, the function will again use those registers, and overwrite the initial values that the first iteration of the function had set. So you'd have to store those somewhere in the memory, and then execute the recursive function.

The solution is using of a register spilling, so we'll discuss what register spilling is

So, this is what we are trying to uhh, to talk about here. So there is an overwrite problem and a space problem.

## Register Spilling
There are two ways of saving the values from the registers.

Either the caller function, or the callee function can save the values in the registers. 

- Caller saved scheme:
	- Caller saves the values
	- Calls the function
	- And then restores the values in the registers
- Callee saved scheme:
	- Callee instead of caller saves the values

### Problems with our approach
- You need to free up the space from the memory when you refill the values in the registers


## Activation Block
Memory map of a function: arguments, register spill area, local vars.

Everything related to the function is stored in the activation block (function's virtual memory location).

### How too use the activation blocks?

**SS**

### Organising activation blocks
So all the information of the execution excluding the funciton are stored in the activation block. These are destroyed many a times.

For example: printf(), scaf(), all these functions have activation blocks stored in the memory. So the problem is how you create and destroy these activation blocks.

Also decide what is the correct way of managing them to increase calling times

## Pattern of Function Calls
Stacked calls

Last in First Out
So we use stacks to store activation blocks.

## Working with the Stack

So how do the program counters and pointers really work?

You allocate a part of memory to save the stack. You reserve some space - program area and stack. Okay. Okay I mean okay just, a I'm not able to write it but think that this is a stack

One thing you must remember is that the activation block is stored in the stack by its ISA address.

So we define a separate register called stack pointer register (sp (14)). r14 is exclusively meant for stack pointer.

SO this uh 100 address the like in order to go to the next one you have to use 
Traditionally, stacks are downward growing.


## Stack 
- space problem
- overwrite problem
- Management of activation blocks


**Q)** Write function for factorial in simpleRISC:

```
% Factorial function
cmp n 1
beq <<return to main>>
cmp 1 n
bgt <<return to main>>
call 

% Main Block
mov r1 n
call .foo n
```

#### ANSWER:
```
.factorial:
	cmp r0, 1
	beq .return
	bgt .continue
	b .return
.continue:
	sub sp, sp, 8 
	st r0, [sp]
	sub r0, r0, 1 
	call .factorial
	ld r0, [sp]
	ld ra, 4[sp]
	mul r1, r0, r1
	add sp, sp, 8
	ret
.main:
	mov r0, 10
	call .factorial
```


