### Methods

Only mean available to object for accessing and manipulating dataof other object.

---

- When we use OO methods to analyse or design a complex software system, our basic building blocks are classes and objects.

### Object

- State: Static and dynamic properties
- Behavior is how an object acts and reacts, in terms of tis state changes and message passing
- Identity is that property of an object which distinguishes it from all other objects

- The structure and behavior of similar objects are defined in their common class. The terms instance and object are interchangeable.

---

- A class is a set of objects that share a common structure, common behavior, and common semantics.
- A single object is simply an instance of a class

> ##### What isn't a class?
> An object is not a class. Objects that share no common structure and behavior cannot be grouped in a class because, by definition, they are unrelated except by their general nature as objects.

---

### What is Object Oriented Design? (OOD)

- Leads to an object-oriented decomposition
- Uses different notations to express different models of the logical and physical design of a system.

---

### What is Object-Oriented Analysis? (OOA)

- OOA is a method of analysis that examines requirements from the perspective of the classes and objects found in the vocabulary of the problem domain.

---

### How are OOA, OOD and OOP related?

- The products of OOA serve as the models from which we may start an OOD.
- The products of OOD can be used as blueprints for completely implementing a system using OOP methods.

---

### Object-Oriented Model

Four **major** elements of this model are:
1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Modularity
4. Hierarchy

By major, we mean that a model without anyone of these elements is not object oriented.

---

The 3 minor elements of the object model:
1. Typing
2. Concurrency
3. Persistance

By minor, we mean that each of these elements is a useful, but not yet essential, part of the object model.

---

### What is the meaning of Abstraction?

Abstraction focuses on the essential characteristics of some object, relative to the perspective of the viewer.

---

- An abstraction denotes the essential characteristics of an object that distinguish it from all other kinds of objects and thus provide crisply defined conceptual boundaries, relative to the perspective of the viewer.
- Abstraction of an object should precede the decisions about its implementation.

---

### Synergy

- No object stands alone
- Every object collaborates with other objects to achieve some behavior

---

### Abstraction

Consider aspects relevant for certain purpose
- **Suppress non-relevant aspects**
- It allows to represent a problem in a simpler way by considering only those aspects that are relevant to purpose and omitting all other details.

---

### Types of abstraction:

- Data abstraction:
	Object in itself shows a data abstraction. It hides details of its data (how it is stored and other) from other objects. -> low coupling (as you can see if Global data is used, then very high coupling)
- Behavior (feature) abstraction:
	- A class hierarchy shows several level of abstraction.
	- Each class is abstraction of its subclass. It retains only those features that are common to its children and ignores others.

---

### Abstraction

- **Advantages of abstraction**
	- Reduces complexity of design
	- Enhances understandability
	- Increases productivity
- It has been observed that:
	- **Productivity** is inversely proportional to **complexity**.


