### Relationship among objects

- Objects contribute to the behavior of a system by collaborating with one another.
- Object in itself is uninteresting.
- Two kinds of object hierarchies:
	- Links
	- Aggregation (parent / child relation)

> Class 1 is related to class 2 if some objects of class 1 are related to some objects of class 2.
> In any software development, a single object is not able to fulfil all the requirements.
> If there is an independent object, it has comparatively low use.
> Objects "collaborate" in a program.

---

### Links (Seniority)

- Physical or conceptual connection between objects
- A link denotes the specific association through which one object (client) applies services of anotehr object (server / supplier).
- Roles of object link:
	- Actor: object can operate on other objects, but never operated upon by other objects
	- Server: Never operates upon other objects, only operated by other objects
	- Agent: Both way.
- Visibility: A and B with a link. A can send message to B, if B is visible to A
- Synchronization: If one object passes message to another across a link, two objects are said to be synchronized.

---

### Aggregation (parent / child relation)

- Link denotes peer to peer relation
- Aggregation denotes a whole / part hierarchy.
	- Aggregate to its parts (some time attributes)

---

### Nature of a Class

- Class is a set of objects that share a common structure and a common behavior

---

### Interface and Implementations

- Larger problem is decomposed into smaller problems (e.g. classes)
	- Binding construct between classes
- **Interface** of a class provides information on what is viewable to the outside (contracted rules) hiding its structure and behavior.
	- Interface allows a class to become more formal about the behavior it promises to provide.

> Problem is divided into different classes and all are bound into a communication contract
> Only required information is given to the other class as per requirement
> Interfaces provide a blueprint of a class and then, make our own functions.

---

- The interface of a class is divided into four accessibility levels
1. Public: A declaration that is accessible to all clients
2. Protected: A declaration that is accessible only to the class itself and its subclasses.
3. Private: A declaration that is accessible only to the class itself
4. Package: a declaration that is accessible only by classes in the same package

---

### Relationships among classes

- Broadly three kinds of relationships:
	- Generalization / specialization: "is a" relation. E.g. Rose is a kind of flower.
	- Whole / Part relation: "part of" E.g. petal is a part of flower.
	- Association: semantic dependency among otherwise unrelated classes. E.g. Rose and Candles are used in decoration.
- Most OOP lang support combination of relations based on these.

---

### Inheritance

- Allows to define a new class (*derived class*) by extending or modifying existing class (*base class*).
	- Represents *generalization-specialization* relationship
	- Allows redefinition of the existing methods (*method overloading*).

---
