# September 1, 2020 - Demand, Supply, and Market Equilibrium

- Resources are limited, scarce, and we need to make the best use of them. ==> How? Whom? 
Economics: What economists do

## Theories and Predictions

- Factor Market: Market where the factors of productions are supplied. (Land, Labour, Capital, Technology).
- Everything has a price, and we need theories to decide the prices. 

## Assume Perfect Competition
- The theory of supply and demand assumes that commodities are traded in perfectly competitive markets.
- A perfectly competitive market is a market in which:
	- There are many buyers
	- There are many sellers
	- and all sellers sell the exact same product
- As a result, each buyer and seller has a negligible impact on the market price.

As a single buyer, you cannot drastically change the price. The key players who affect the price are broadly  classified as 'market participants'.

## Market participants
- All participants are trying to obtain maximum return from the scarce resources they have.
	- Consumers: maximise utility (satisfaction of unmet wants) they can get from available incomes.
	- Businesses: maximise profits by selling goods that satisfy while keeping costs low.
	- Govt: maintain general welfare of society (Although they conduct business too)

## Circular Flow of Economic Activity
- Negotiation between producers and consumers takes place in the product market.
- Input / Factor Market : Supply the factors that product manufacturers need to make their products.

## Supply and Demand
- What determines price of good or service?
- What determines market demand and supply
- Demand and supply together decide product price

## Demand
Certain goods and services are demanded by the consumers, which the producers 

- Demand v/s Need:
	- Why are all our desires/needs fulfilled? 
	- In economics, our needs must be backed by the ability to pay.
	- If we have the ability to pay for a product, but, we're not willing to buy it, we call it a 'want'.
- Effective Demand
	- Desire to have a good 
	- Willingness to pay
	- Ability to pay
- Quantity demanded is the amount of a good that buyers are willing and able to purchase
- Demand is a full description of how the quantity changes as the price of the good changes

## Demand Schedule and Demand Curve

Market demand is the sum of individual demands

## Law of Demand
- The law of demand states that:
	- the quantity demanded of a good falls when the price of the good rises, and vice versa, provided that all other factors are constant.
	- Inverse relationship between price (p) and quantity demanded (Q) ==> Demand curve has a negative slope

> Wdu mean by 'provided all other factors are unchanged'?

- First of all, that's a very important phrase in the wording of the law of demand
- The quantity demanded of a consumer good such as ice cream depends on:
	- Price of ice cream
	- Price of related goods
	- Consumers' incomes
	- Consumers' tastes
	- Consumers' expectations about future prices and incomes
	- Number of buyers, etc

```
 There are many factors that affect the
 consumer's inclination to buy a product
 ```
- Prices of electronics depreciates in the first few months after its release. ==> Consumers tend to wait till price drops
- Price of real estate is rising rapidly. Hence, many people want to invest in real estate. 
- Stock market: People read the market and decide to buy and sell depending on whether they fell the market will rise or fall.

## Why might demand increase?

Shifts in market demand curve can occur due to changes in :
- Consumer income
- Price of related goods:	
- Tastes
- etc

A change in demand vs a change in quantity demanded

- Change in price occurs due to change in demand
- Change in demand occurs due to change in other factors


## Shifts in demand curve
- Consumer income:
	- Income increase causes product demand to increase => ***normal good***
	- Income increase causes product demand to decrease => ***inferior good***
- Price of related goods:
	- Price of one good increase, and causes the demand of another good to decrease, it is called a ***complimentary product***.
	- Price of one good increase, and causes the price of another good to increase, it is called a ***substitute product***.

## The Law of Demand - Explanations
- There are two ways to explain the Law of Demand
	- Substitution effect
	- Income effect

#### Substitution effect:
If price of a product increases, the demand for this product decreases, but a demand for another (substitute) product increases
#### Income effect:
Lower prices = Higher income

Income of $10.00 and price of $1.00 is the same as Income of $20.00 and price of $2.00

`. Real Income .`


> How do we know what effect contributes to how much of the price change?
