# September 8, 2020
## Law of Supply
***Refer to slides***


### Supply Shift
How could a producer's supply have increased?
If the production cost of a good decreases, then price of sale will also decrease (or, producer .

- Supply increases (shifts to the right) when:
	- New tech lowers operating costs
	- Factor costs decline
	- Tax rate decreases
	- Future prices are expected to rise
	- Price of alternative goods fall
	- Number of sellers increase
- Similarly, Supply could also decrease (vice versa)

### A change in supply versus a change in quantity supplied

- Change in price of a good or service leads to Change in quantity Supplied.
- Change in other factors lead to change in supply

## Interaction of Demand and Supply

## Equilibrium
- We assume that the price will automatically reach a level at which the quantity demanded equals the quantity supplied.
- No shortage exists
- No surplus exists
- Qd = Qs = Qe
- **The price will not change until there is a change in demand/supply**.
- Markets reach equilibrium because buyers have a demand behaviour ad sellers have a supply behaviour.
	- No one is in charge of fixing the price!
	- The market mechanism (Adam smith's 'invisible hand') leads the market to equilibrium
	- Once the price is decided, the individual buyers and sellers just accept the price.
- At equilibrium, Qd = Qs at the equilibrium price Pe.
	- We say that the market mechanism signals the desired outcome at Pe.

*Observe that in the graph, equilibrium settles at the intersection of the demand and supply curves.*

## Market Disequilibrium

- ***Excess Demand*** - shortage, condition when quantity demanded > quantity supplied at the current price.
	- In case of excess demand, the price tends to increase until the equilibrium is restored.
- ***Excess Supply*** - 

## What causes the price to change?
- Price changes when eqbm is upset.
	- *due to a shift in demand* (a change in buyers' behaviour) 
	- *due to a shift in supply* (a change in sellers' behaviour)
- After the shift, a surplus or shortage is created and the market mechanism goes into effect to find the new equilibrium

 ***SEE GRAPH FROM SLIDES***
- Higher demand leads to higher prices. 


### BUYERS DRIVE THE PRICES UPWARDS, SELLERS PUSH THE PRICE DOWN

> IT IS NOT THE THE PRICE CHANGE THAT CAUSES CHANGE IN SUPPLY AND DEMAND, BUT THE CHANGE IN SUPPLY AND DEMAND THAT CAUSE THE PRICE TO CHANGE.

> HENCE, THE PRICE DOES NOT CHANGE UNLESS THERE IS A DISEQUILIBRIUM.


## Market Outcomes
- What to produce?
- For whom to produce?
- How much to produce?

## Price Control
- Govt. may impose *price ceiling* (max price) and *price floor* (min price).
- Price ceiling:
	- Price fixed is less than Pe => Leads to shortage (see graph).
	- Black market???
- Price floor:
	- Price fixed is more than Pe =>Leads to surplus (see graph)
	- Permanent surplus exists


> When market decides the price, it is the most efficient way of determining price.
