# September 21, 2020
So basically when we are talking about classes and objects, we must think from a different perspective, not just how it's represented.

Basically first you decide a class. For the real world entities, what should be the variables needed and what are the functions? And in this way you should be thinking.

So we will discuss these things briefly today, we will discuss one by one so that you are grasping the things properly

If you look at the concept of object-oriented, it's not a new concept ~ 40 years old. Earlier it was not accepted by the market, because, the procedural programming approaches were quite famous. C is a procedural language. *It is very much procedural*

Coming from procedural to object oriented was very difficult.

When you are dealing with object oriented programming, it's not just the syntax that's different, but also the paradigm. However, it is much easier to handle bigger projects using object oriented

UML -> Unified Modelling Language

Ultimately what happened that there were different teams that proposed different modelling languages. 

## Objects
So when we are finding that there are some important real world entities in the problem, like if you look upon the institute management system, then you will find the different roles, but you can find a common category `employees`

One thing is also found very properly in many of the system specification there are some conceptual objects also, like, controller, manager, these are not real world entities in many ways.

So these conceptual objects need to be designed many a time. 

You might find that you need to design an object like error handler, or event handler. You need to define those conceptual objects also. 

So these are ultimately called objects, right.

Each of the objects in a given problem have some *characteristics*, we call them `attributes`.
And given the problem specification, we can identify the corresponding functions, or `methods` that operate on the data. 

Mostly, until unless we have specified it explicitly, the data is private to the class only. 

Data is private to the object and each object hides its data from the other objects. What is the meaning of hiding data? It means whatever data we have assigned to the object, it is not directly accessible by other objects.

Data abstraction / data hiding means that we are able to extract the data out of an object, but we cannot see how that data is stored. We can only access them by calling their methods.

So objects, attributes, and data, these are the terms that are used interchangeably. Functions and methods are used interchangeably.

## Class
When you are understanding the problem specification, you will find many of the objects that are similar to each other. Like, one object can be accountant in the office, another object could be clerical staff; these are ultimately all different nous, but they have similar types of data and functions on which they need to operate.

So those objects can be grouped together and generalised -> called a class.

So we can declare a class and instances of that class will be the individual objects. Mostly you will find that if the objects in your problem statements occur multiple times, then you'd define classes for them. If the object isn't occurring multiple times, then maybe a class isn't needed.

### Properties of Classes

- Classes can be considered as abstract data types (ADT).
	- Why?
	- I hope all of you know what is the meaning of data type. Can anyone tell me 
	- **GUGUN BHOI:** Sir different types of data like, float, char, int
	- **DINKU BHOI:** Similar types of data
	- **GEJENEN**: Form of data which can be paired on the basis of size and the type of information you will store in it
	- **SKG**: Type is ultimately used to identify a group of entities. Like all of you know integer type of data. If I am declaring a variable `i` of '`int` type, then it means that `i` is an instance of `int`.
	- So from there it will be very much clear. It is a type which is having some properties

What is the meaning of ADT?
- ADT basically means that the data contained in each of the instance in a data type can be read by another instance but does not reveal the structure.

Data of an object can be accessed only through its methods if you are declaring a class. Even if you are declaring object1 and object2

### Abstract Class
👺
## OOP
1. OOP uses objects not algorithms as a fundamental building block
2. Each object is an instance of some class
3. Classes may be related to one another via inheritance relationship

### All Three Elements
If any of the above three elements are missing, then the language cannot be called object oriented language. for eg, If inheritance is missing, then we'd call it 

## OO Requirements
- Language is oo iff it satisfies:
	1. Objects are associated by type (class)
	2. Classes may inheit from superclasses
	3. Objects are data abstractions (hidden)

Initially the first OOP is **SmallTalk**. This language wasn't very famous though.

SmallTalk didn't have primitive data types, like, int, float, etc.

Later on in Java, for eg, int and other primitive data types are supported. Nowadays, there are many languages available.
