# September 28, 2020
> Chapter 2 - GRADY BOOCH

## Encapsulation
- Achieved through information hiding. We are saying that the contents in an object and its properties, everything is hidden from the outside world.

Relationship b/w encapsulation/abstraction:
- Both are related / dependent to each other
- Abstraction is used to hide unnecessary details.
- Encapsulation helps to apply abstraction.
- Encapsulation allows for controlled access.
- Encapsulation is **not** the only way to apply abstraction. It is *one* of the ways
- If we see abstraction, it is not the only application of encapsulation.

- During the implementation of abstraction, we will have two parts:
	- Implementation of the class (data items, functions of class)
	- Interface of the class (how the data items and functions can be accessed by other classes)

- Encapsulated data is accessible only through the classes' methods. Like, if we have declared Class A and Class B, Class A can only access class B's private data if Class B has provided a method to do so.

## Modularity
Modularity is a property of a system that has been decomposed into small parts to form a whole.

I think all of you by now understand the term modularity. Ultimately, the goal of modularity is to group the different data items into separate units. There are many possible ways under the concept of modularity. 

If code isn't modular, shit quality code leads to:
- Code reuse-ability decreases.
- New employees will take longer time to understand code.
- DRY coding. (Don't Repeat Yourself)
- It'll be more difficult to add new features.
- If you go to add new features which use the same functions as the current software, then if the code is not modular we will have to rewrite the functions.


## Hierarchy
Ranking/Ordering of abstractions
- Multiple inheritance
- Aggregation

## Typing
- Class is a kind of typing
- Strong typing prevents the mixing of different abstractions
- Levels of typing:
	- Strong 
	- Weak
- Types of Typing:
	- Static (aka static binding or early binding)
		- Types of the variables are fixed at the time of compilation
	- Dynamic (aka late binding)
		- Types of all variables and expressions are not known till runtime
		- **How is there dynamic typing in Java?** 

## Concurrency
- Allows different objects to act at the same time
	- Multithreading, multitasking
- Heavyweight concurrency
	- Processes independently managed by OS with separate address spaces
- Lightweight concurrency
	- Lives within a single OS process along with other lightweight process sharing same address space

## Persistence
An object in any software takes some amount of time and exists for a particular amount of time.


## Benefits of Object Model:
***SS HERE***

