# September 22, 2020

**Operation:** Responsibility of class
**Method:** Implementation of responsibility

But if it is the scenario that even for a single responsibility, it is useful to write the simple methods. In that case you are writing multiple methods, which are fulfilling the same responsibility.

For example, if there a class and its responsibility is to draw a circle, it can implement multiple ways to solve the circle. It could be that it will draw a default circle. Or, it could be that we want a circle of a specific radius. Or, it could be that we want a circle with a specific radius as well as specifying the centre's coordinates.

If I want to talk to my friend, right, then normally I will follow some specific messages (like, first hello, then good morning etc)

AKA *Protocol*

Message passing in OOP was eventually implemented using method invocation. If you want to call a method of object 2, then you write o2.method1();

>Message passing in C++ and Java is implemented using method invocation.

So ultimately we can summarise that when we are using OOP for making software, the building blocks will be the classes and objects.

### Object
An object is an entity that has:
- State (static and dynamic properties)
	- When we are implementing anything, then the values/properties of objects keep changing. When these values are change, then the contents of the objects are changing. So at any time, the values of the objects represent the state of the object.
- Behaviour is how an object acts and reacts, in terms of its state changes and message passing.
	- Think about how the behaviour of a person is identified.
	- Actions with respect to the current state
- Distinguishable property
	- We give the objects names to distinguish them.

> An Object of a class has characteristics that are very similar to people

The structure and behaviour of objects which have similar characteristics, are defined in their common class. The terms instance and object are interchangeable.

### Class
A class is a set of objects that share a common structure, common behaviour and common semantics.

A single object is simply an instance of a class.

What isn't a class?
- An single object is not a class. If there are multiple objects of the same type, then they can be grouped together and formed a class.

## What is Object Oriented Design?
- Two important parts of OOD:
	1. leads to an object oriented decomposition
	2. ...

## What is Object oriented Analysis
- Object-oriented analysis is a method of analysis that examines requirements from the perspective of the classes and objects found in the problem statement.
 
## How are OOA, OOD, and OOP related?

The products of OOA serve as models which may be used as models from which we may create an OOD.

The products of OOD can then be used as blueprints for completely implementing a system using OOP

**I HOPE YOU ARE ABLE TO UNDERSTAND WHAT I AM TRYING TO SPECIFY**

## Object Oriented Model
So if I am talking about OOD, then all these fundamentals are ultimately specified with some modelling tools.

There are 4 essential elements of the Object Oriented Model:
- Abstraction
- Encapsulation
- Modularity
- Hierarchy

We will discuss each one of these one by one.

By major, we mean that a model without any one of these elements is not object oriented

The three minor elements are:
- Typing
- Concurrency
- Persistence
They are minor because they are not necessary for an object oriented design, but are generally present

### Synergy
- No object stands alone
- Every object collaborates with other objects to achieve some behaviour
- What ultimately will happen in any problem/software is that the objects will collaborate with each other to achieve the overall objective.

### Abstraction
**Abstraction is hiding the unnecessary complexity, and exposing only the necessary information**
- Suppressing the irrelevant details
- If you are developing a software for a smart city, you will not go into detail for every house. You will pick up the general (relevant-to-you) problems and deal with that.

Two types of abstraction

### Data Abstraction
- The internal detail of the data is hidden from the others
- Revise coupling
- Take an example:
	-  If you are declaring a global data variable, it is specified in a shared manner, which can be accessed by all the functions defined in the program. 
	- Global data -> high coupling
- Data hiding reduces coupling

### Behaviour (feature) abstraction
- Class hierarchy
- Like, if you are having a class hierarchy then the top level classes (or super classes) will just be the abstraction of their sub classes. The super classes will contain the characteristics/behaviour that are needed for its super classes.

Abstaraction:
- Reduces complexity 
- Increases understand-ability
- Improves productivity

>Productivity is the inverse of complexity
