# September 3, 2020

Market economy says that it is the individuals and firms that form the answers to the three economic questions.

## Market System
- Market - Any place where buyers and sellers meet
- Two groups: Households and Firms
- Two types of markets:
	- Product market: You are buying the goods an services sold by the firms.
	- Factor Market: Factors of production are sold by households to the firms (for eg when you work for a company and providing your labour, and in return, you're getting wages)

## The Circular Flow Diagram
*** INSERT SS HERE ***

- B2B transactions:
	- The above circular diagram does not cover B2B transactions. It only shows us how households.

## Free Market
- Individuals are acting on their own rational self-interest.
- "Invisible hand". --> No Gov.t intervention. 
- When we trade with other countries, we only do it because we want to. 

## Market Failure
- Market outcomes are not always efficient.
- Government might interfere.
- For eg:
	- If the price of a commodity increases so much that people are not able to afford to satisfy their basic needs, then govt. can interfere.

## Government Intervention
- Price Ceiling:
	- Maximum price that sellers can charge:
		- Example: Rent control
		- Govt. sets a max house rent that can be charged
	- Price Floor:
		- Example: Minimum wage:
		- Minimum legal wage that employer will have to pay their employees
	- Other ways: *Refer to NIOS textbook*

## Micro v/s Macro
| | Micro | Macro |
| - | - | - |
| **Production** | Production/output in individual industries and businesses | National Production / Output |
| **Prices** | Price of Individual Goods and Services | Aggregate Price Level |
| **Income** | Distribution of Income and Wealth | National Income - Total Wages and salaries |
| **Employment** | Employment by individual businesses and industries | Employment / Unemployment rates in the entire economy |

