# National Income Accounting

### National Income

- National income refers to the market value of all final goods and services resulting from the productive activities by the residents of the nation during the account year.

### Intermediate vs. final goods

- Intermediate goods : Goods used for further production
- Final goods: Goods that flow for ultimate consumption

*Caution: The value of intermediate goods is not considered in computing national income since it leads to the problem of "double counting".*

## Measures of National Income

### Gross National Product (GDP)

- GNP belongs to the nation, and then, it must be produced by its owned factors of production only.
- If an Indian Professor takes up a four month Visiting Professorship in a US University, has income in USA is the part of India's GNP and similarly, the profit that an MNC makes in India, is not a part of India's GNP.

### Gross Domestic Product (GDP)

- GDP is the total market value of a country's output. It is the market value of all final goods and services produced within a given period of time by factos of production located within a country.
- Within political boundaries of nation
	- Blah
	- Blah
	- Blah

- GDP = GNP - (Net Factor Income from Abroad i.e. NIA)
	- NIA: Income earned by residents in foreign - Income earned by foreigners in India

- GNP differs from GDP by including income that our citizens earn abroad and excluding income that foreigners earn here. For most countries, domestic residents are responsible for most domestic production, so GDP and GNP are quite close.

> ####  Ex: Kia plant in Amravati
> Has Indian workers
> Output are included in Indian GDP
> If you are getting wages, they'll be included in Indian GDP.
> But, the profit due to the plant goes into Korean GDP.

### Net income from abroad

- Net income is the difference between the income earned from abroad by noral residents of a country and the factor income earned by non-residents (foreigners) in the domestic territory of that country.
- Blah

### Net National Product (NNP)

- NNP is equal to: GNP less Allowances for Capital Consumption

- **Capital Consumption Allowances**: are the total or aggregate costs of the wear and tear or depreciation of the capital stock i.e., machinery, tools, plants, roads, power grids, buildings, bus fleet, trains, railways, etc. within an economy usually within a given year. Another name for the CCAs is the depreciation of capital stock or its depreciation costs.

> **NNP = GNP - Depreciation**

- It is called gross because no provision has been made for depreciation.


### Net Domestic Product (NDP)

- Similar to above but with GDP.

### Gross (Net) National Products at Market price and Factor cost

* GNP~NP = GNP subscript(NP)
- GNP at Market Price (GNP~MP)
- GNP at Factor Cost (GNP~FC)

- GNP~MP = Market value of all domestically produced goods and services + incomes earned by the residents of a country in foreign countries - incomes earned by the foreigners in the country
- GNP~FC = GNP at factor cost is the net of indirect taxes, but includes the subsidies as it values the goods at the prices paid by the end users.

- GNP~FC = GNP~MP + Subsidies (S) - Indirect Taxes (IT)

*Note here that Factor costs are really the costs of all the factors of production such as labor, capital, energy, raw materials like steel, etc. that are used to produce a given quantity of output in an economy.*

- GDP at market price is final product valued at market price. That is what buyers pay. But this is not what production units actually receive. Out of what buyers pay, the production units have to make payments of indirect taxes and adjustments for subsidies which they receive on production. Therefore, what production units actually receive is not market price but market price less indirect taxes plus subsidies i.e. factor payments. GDP at factor cost is actually available to production unit for ...BLAH

### Private, Personal and Disposable income

- Private income is total of factor incomes and transfer incomes received from all sources by private sector within and outside country.
	- Transfer income: The income that government transfers to you by pensions, etc.



